## Developer Guide

Testnet is a safe place for developers to try dangerous operations. The tokens on testnet have no value, because a testnet may be reset or stop at some future time. You can get tokens of a testnet from the faucet for free.

The full node client `cetd` of CoinEx Chain, provides two set of RESTful RPC APIs: one is the lower-level API which is only used by the command line client `cetcli`, and the other is a feature-rich API which is provided for wallet backends and explorer backends. If you are developing some application based on CoinEx Chain, you'd better to choose the feature-rich API.

This feature-rich API provides two kinds of functions:

1. query the current/historical status of the blockchain and subscribe for the status updates
2. construct unsigned transactions in json format, which can be signed by a wallet

For the common programming languages, there are SDKs which can help programmers to use this feature-rich API. Besides, these SDKs also provides methods to create, manager and sign with private keys.

Sometimes you do not want to use this API to construct unsigned transactions because of the network latency or security reasons. It's OK. You can construct the json string directly. Their formats are well documented.

If your application do use this API, for security and availability reasons, you'd better setup a witness node to run `cetd`, which also serves your application.

A witness node can dump execution logs to hard disk. A "watcher program" can analyze these logs to trace the status updates of CoinEx DEX Chain. An advanced developer can write her own "watcher program" to fulfill some special needs. The format of these execution logs are well documented too.

